---
title:  "Answers"
mathjax: true
layout: post
categories: media
---

# Questions for the process
Responses from two managers (manager 1, 7 agents) and (manager 2, 18 agents).

## Agents
- Who is in the server pool? Is it the same server for different queues?
  - What is the relationship between the servers and the pool?
- Agent and handler numbers: Are these in different departments?
  - Can we add the team names to agents?

Anwer: 
This differ between the teams. In one team (manager 1), all 7 agents are assigned to VIP queues, while max 2 of them are also assigned to the two SoHo queues maintained by manager 1. Internal calls can also occur, when a shop has an issue related to SoHo customers (i.e. the customer shows up in the shop). VIP is manned from 8-16, SoHo from 8-11.30, and 14-16.

## SLA
- What is the SLA of the different queues?
- What are the incentives to conform to the SLAs?
  - Any type of bonus that they dont get or so?
  - Is that on a individual or on a server-pool basis? or a mixture?

Answer: SoHo: 95% within 5 minutes (CAP5), VIP: 95% within 1 minute (CAP1). There are no incentives for the individual agents. However, both agent and team is measured on their level of compliance. Manager 1 states that they do not put a lot of effort into following up on the SLA performance.
 

## Calls/cases
- Who is calling in? Only tech responsible/owners? or also employees of the enterprise customers?

Answer: On the VIP lines (BAMALAKA), it is mainly the administrator, phone or IT responsible in the customer company. On SoHo it is everyone: i.e. all employees with a B2B sub.

- Can we differentiate the problem types/codes?
  - How reliable is errand_type? 

This is unknown to manager 2, who stresses that this is not part of the call system they use, so if the data is there, it must be logged in another system that he has no knowledge of. This is not a requirement for taking a call, so data quality might be semi-unreliable.

## Unanswered
- What happens end-to-end when a customer calls CS?

